Now that we built the app for production,
the next step is that we wanna take that code
in the build folder and move it onto a real server.
We wanna upload it to some hosting provider,
to a real server, so that it is made available
to visitors from all over the world.
And now when it comes to uploading that code,
there is one super important thing to realize.
A React Single Page Application
or any Single Page Application actually,
no matter which framework you used, is a static website
which it means that it's only made up of HTML, CSS,
and browser site JavaScript code.
There is no server side code involved.
If we take a look at the output in the build folder
then we have a couple of images and conflict files here
and we have one HTML file, and in the static folder
we have CSS and JavaScript.
And the JavaScript code here is not server side
JavaScript code, it's not node js code,
it is client side, browser side JavaScript code.
And therefore this is code
which executes in the browser, hence the entire build folder
contains no code at all that needed
to be executed on a server.
No node js code, no PHP code, nothing.
You can of course also build your own backend,
your own API instead of Firebase, which we used
as a dummy API in this course,
but that's a totally different story.
I do cover this in my Mern course, for example,
but when it comes to just a react application,
it is just such a static website
and there is no server side code involved.
And therefore, when we want to deploy
such a react single page application,
we need a static side host.
So we need a hosting provider
an offering for hosting a static website.
We don't need a hosting provider that allows us to
run server side code
like no JS or PHP or anything like that.
We don't need that here.
Now, how do you find such a host?
Well, for example, you can simply Google
for a static website hosting provider
and you'll find different comparisons, certainly
also some advertisements and you'll find different results
for hosting providers that help you
with hosting your static site.
For example, Google has a built in service.
AWS has a service that helps you with hosting static sites,
the S free service to be precise.
If you click on here, you can learn more about that.
But here to give you an example, I will go
with Firebase again, but it's just one possible option.
And just because we're using Firebase
as a dummy backend does not mean
that you need to use Firebase for hosting.
You're totally free there.
You can use any hosting provider.
You don't have to use Firebase, not in general
and also not specifically for this demo here.
I simply picked it because it is fairly easy to use
and if we have a look at the pricing,
we can get started for free here
which is also quite nice.
Now to host a site on Firebase,
you need to create an account there, a Google account
and then log into Firebase.
And here I'll use the project we worked on
before in this course already.
And here in that Firebase project,
you can simply create a new one
if you don't have one already, you can pick hosting.
And if you then click on get started,
you'll learn more about how that works.
And it all starts
by installing a certain tool on your system.
So I will just copy that command here,
go back back to my command line here
and then run this command.
On Mac iOS and Linux,
you might need to add pseudo in front of it.
On Windows you don't, to give it the right permissions.
So here I'll add that and enter my password.
And then now this installs this Firebase tools software
on my system.
Now because of dash G, it installs it globally.
So that is now not a project specific tool
and it's also not a react specific tool.
It's just a general piece of software provided by Firebase
for deploying any kind of static site to Firebase.
So let's wait for this installation to finish now
and now that it is finished,
if we go back to Firebase, we can click on next here.
And you see that as a next step
you need to log in.
So you now need to run this command, which should now work.
Now that Firebase tools was installed to log
into your Firebase account.
Now, I am already logged in here.
For you, it might prompt you
for your credentials in the command line here
or it opens a browser tab where you need to log in.
And once you did that, you should also be able to
continue here in the command prompt.
Now once you are logged in, you need to run Firebase in it.
And now this needs to be executed in your project folder
so in this overall react project folder.
Now since I'm using this integrated terminal here,
I am already navigated in there
and hence, I can just run it here.
Now, this command, when you execute it
will ask you a couple of questions.
For example, it will ask us
which Firebase features we want to use
because you can use this Firebase tools
software to administer other Firebase features as well.
But here, we just want to go to hosting and hit space.
The space button on our keyboard to select this option.
And that is the only option we need to select here.
So once you've selected hosting, hit enter
and now you need to choose whether you want to
create a new Firebase project or use an existing one.
And I'll go with an existing one here
and then select this project
which I also opened here in my browser console.
So select that project and hit enter.
And now it asks us a very important question here.
It asks what we want to use as our public directory.
And that simply means
that it wants to know where the files are
that it should deploy.
Now, by default, it uses the public folder here
but that would be wrong here
because public is a folder in our project, but
it is a folder where we can change
the images we use and so on.
The actual output which we want to deploy, lives
in the build folder, as you learned.
So here we don't want to use the default, but instead
manually enter build here
since that's the folder name that contains our files
that should be deployed.
So that's super important.
And if you use another hosting provider like AWS as free
you also want to upload the content
of your build folder to that hosting provider.
Now, as a next step, it conveniently asks us
wherever we want to configure this app as a single page app.
So if you want to rewrite all URLs to index HTML
but that can be a confusing question here.
Why does this matter?
And what is it about?